#summary Documentation for the API

The *miniqdb API* is a simple way for non-humans to read the database. It is provided through api.php.

REST (XML) is currently implemented; JSON is soon to come. More actions will also soon be available.

Throughout this documentation, the root of the miniqdb instance will be {{{http://example.com/stuff/miniqdb}}}; therefore, the URL we will be accessing will be {{{http://example.com/stuff/miniqdb/api.php}}}.

= Basic syntax =
URLs are setup using GET requests. For example, accessing the URL
  {{{http://example.com/stuff/miniqdb/api.php?method=rest&act=quote&id=42}}}
would return quote 42 in REST format.

The _method_ variable is optional; it defaults to rest. The _act_ variable is *required*. Other variables may be available or required depending on the action; per-action syntax is defined below.

= quote =
Retrieve a single quote by id.

== Variables ==

|| *Variable* || *Required?* || *Description* ||
|| id || yes || id of quote you want to access ||

Example: {{{http://example.com/stuff/miniqdb/api.php?method=rest&act=quote&id=42}}} would return quote 42.

== Return ==
A single element, {{{quote}}}, is returned. The text of this element is the quote itself.

=== {{{quote}}} Attributes ===
|| *Attribute* || *Description* ||
|| id || id number of the quote ||
|| timestamp || UNIX epoch of when quote was added ||
|| lines || number of lines in the quote ||

= stats =
Retrieve statistics on the qdb.

== Variables ==

|| *Variable* || *Required?* || *Description* ||
|| || || There are no variables for this action ||

Example: {{{http://example.com/stuff/miniqdb/api.php?method=rest&act=stats}}} would return statistics.

== Return ==
A single element, {{{stats}}}, is returned. This contains the attribute {{{count}}}, which is a count of all the quotes in the database.

= Errors =
|| *Error number* || *Error text* || *Explanation* ||
|| 1 || invalid method || You specified an incorrect method. Valid methods are listed above. ||
|| 2 || invalid act || You specified an invalid action. Valid actions are listed above. ||
|| 3 || no quote id || You did not specify the quote id when it was required for {{{act=quote}}}. ||
|| 4 || invalid quote id || The quote id you specified was invalid. ||

= bugz. =
File an issue or feature request with the labels Project-miniqdb and Component-API.